As far as the CLI app goes,
if we just kind of recap
everything that we have here.
We created an app that allows
us to perform crud on some
notes that interacts with a file.
And takes advantage of some of
the core internal modules like fs and
things like that.
That we get access to inside of node.
We then also interacted with NPM and
installed a few things from other
developers like just yargs open and
created some tests to test
some of those things.
And then lastly, we created a simple but
sophisticated Web server that
sends back some server-side HTML that gets
interpolated from data from our database.
At the end of the day, almost every
app you work on, especially web apps,
is going to be this.
Pulling data from a database,
interpolating it in some type
of HTML JavaScript framework.
That is like every app, period.
And everything around that is just
trying to figure out how to do that
performatively how to do that faster,
how to do it cooler.
That's it.
Like every framework is just this.
It's an abstraction around this.
So if you understand this at its core,
it's fundamental.
If some new framework comes out,
you'd be like, okay.
So how do I interpolate date like it's the
same thing you'll just know you'll be able
to learn in like a day because
you understand the basics.
So yeah, that's pretty much
everything I wanted to cover
as far as things that I wanted
to make sure you all saw.
But now I want to talk about some next
step things that you probably want to
look at to help you on your
journey as you go further.
And I was gonna put them in the notes.
Then I got to the notes and
I was like, you know what,
I'll probably feel different about
it without talking about it.
So I left it blank.
So there's nothing in that page
about Recap because I don't
know I'm brand new and
I like I feel different every day.
So some of the things I definitely want
you all to look at I mentioned it I'm just
gonna show you so you see it with your own
eyes is express Jas so check out Express.
Highly recommend going here and
building out a API server
with Express,
where you can send back some JSON data.
It's the standard, although I
will admit that there are newer,
faster server frameworks out there,
but it doesn't matter.
This isn't going to production.
You don't need to learn every framework.
Just pick one that makes sense to you and
try to build something with it.
And have fun.
I would say Express,
there's probably more resources out there.
There's more things to Google,
there's more videos to watch.
So for me learning something is
all about the accumulation of
resources that are available to me.
It's harder to learn something
with less resources,
even though it might be easy to learn.
Trying to learn Elixir
which is really difficult.
It is difficult because there's not
a lot of resources out there, but
the language itself is not that difficult.
But good luck googling
something on Elixir.
So, yeah, ExpressJS,
build an application with it.
I also recommend checking out
replacing what we did with the files.
But with a database.
So you could pretty much
pick any database you want.
I don't really have like any strong
recommendations on which ones you should
or shouldn't do, but some of the top ones
might be like Postgres or Margo or MySQL.
Just pick one of those databases and
swap out the files that we did with
the database and your choice of an ORM.
A really good RMS is Prisma is probably
like the go to standard out there.
Everyone uses this to model their
database and do different things.
So highly recommend checking that out.
I would also recommend
publishing something to NPM.
So how to Publish a NPM package you
can even take the thing that we made and
publish it to NPM.
It's like two commands
it's really simple to do.
But highly recommend just putting
something on NPM that's got your name on
it, even though no one will ever use it.
But just so you go through that flow and
you feel it, you're like, wow,
I put something out there on
the internet and just put it out there.
So highly recommend that.
Yes.
>> And we have of course, created an open
source JavaScript library on GitHub that
talks about publishing NPM as well.
>> There you go.
That's the one, so do that.
And then also check out TypeScript
if you haven't less about node, but
more just about that's just
what everyone's using.
And then last thing would be,
take a little more advanced course
I know we have the API,
design course here that are also taught.
So check out that one if you want to
take this and go a step further and
make a full blown JSON API that
will like deploy somewhere.
Check out that course.
We pretty much cover everything
in there from Prisma, Postgres,
like all these different things.
We'll keep it up to date.
That one I do go into more depth, but
that also just means like you should
check out like deploying something.
So make a server, deploy it somewhere.
Getting something to work on
your machine is one thing.
Getting it to work on AWS or
Digital ocean or
wherever you want to deploy
it is completely different.
So check that out as well.
Other than that, yeah, just,
I would highly recommend just going in and
trying to, I don't know,
build small automations that you could
leverage in your personal life,
your day to day.
For instance, some of the things that I
built early on were like, I would use
test end to end testing frameworks
that would simulate user interaction.
To go online and automatically
find me shoes or pay my bills,
because I didn't feel like
opening a browser to do it.
So I would have the script go and do it.
Can you open the browser and
go check this Nike website every hour, and
then text me if the shoes are in stock?
So it would.
And
I would just leave my computer running and
it would go do that.
Right, or just like you open a browser and
on the 15th of every month or whatever,
go pay this Internet bill for me.
Here's my credit card information and
it will go do it, right?
So yeah, just try things out.
Try to have fun with it,
something that inspires you.
We didn't talk about it, but
you can make API calls from your server
to other servers and get data, right.
So you can there's not
a limit to what you can do.
So yeah, have fun with it.
Other than that, it was a pleasure.
Thank you everybody.
Thanks for taking the course.
[APPLAUSE]